Gstd is feature-compatible with Zstandard except for the availability of
"less than one" probabilities in FSE table definitions.  You should refer to
the Zstandard documentation for information on the high-level functionality
of Zstandard.


BITSTREAM BEHAVIOR AND INTERLEAVING

Gstd streams are designed for SIMD kernels and have a "parallelism level"
that determines the number of data units that are executed at once.  The
default level is 32, but this is fully configurable.

All streams are loaded from a stream of 32-bit words.  Typically the words
are encoded into a byte stream with the least-significant byte first, but
this is not required.

Gstd streams are encoded as 3 separate types of bitstreams:
- The byte stream is a single stream that is consumed 8 bits at a time,
  starting with the least-significant 8 bits of the word.
- The word stream is a single stream that is consumed 32 bits at
  a time.
- A number of parallel bitstreams exist, the number being equal to the
  parallelism level. Parallel bitstreams are numbered from 0 to the
  number of bitstreams minus one.

Each bitstream is a FIFO bit queue.

When a bitstream is "refilled," a 32-bit word is loaded from the input
stream and appended to the end of the bitstream buffer, starting with the
least-significant bits of the word.

When a value is "read" from a bitstream, some number of bits are dequeued and
typically interpreted as a number with the first bit dequeued from the stream
representing the least-significant bit of the resulting number.

When a bitstream is "preloaded," the decoder checks if the bitstream contains
at least as many bits than the preload amount.  If it does not, then the
bitstream is refilled.


ROTATING DECODE

A "rotating decode" is a process where a number of values up to the
parallelism level are decoded at once into a FIFO queue, then read from
the FIFO queue.  Multiple types of values can be decoded via rotating decode
process and the FIFO queues for each type of value are independent.

The following rotating decode FIFO queues exist and are decoded independently:
- Huffman weights
- FSE table probabilities
- Literal length FSE values
- Match length FSE values
- Offset FSE values
- Literal length bits
- Match length bits
- Offset code bits
- Literal value A
- Literal value B
- Literal value C
- Literal value D

Additionally, FIFO queues can reset their rotation at specific points, in
which case the next value to read into the FIFO queue will be read from
the first bitstream instead of the one after the previous value.

Huffman weights rotation is reset before each Huffman tree definition.
FSE table probability rotation is reset before each FSE table definition.
All other rotations are reset at the start of a block.

When preloading a rotating decode queue, the number of streams to decode is
calculated as the lesser of the number of streams and the number of values
remaining to decode.  Then, that many streams are preloaded.

Decoding the values is similar: The number of values to decode is determined
in the same way as preloading, and then those values are read from the
parallel bitstreams.


PACKED SIZE ENCODING

To decode a packed size:

1. Read 1 byte from the byte stream as X.
2. If (X mod 2) = 0, then the value is decoded as X / 2.
3. If (X mod 4) = 0, then read 1 byte from the byte stream as Y.  The value is
   decoded as (Y * 64) + (X / 4) + 128
4. If (X mod 4) = 2, then read 2 bytes from the byte stream as Y and Z, in
   that order.  The value is decoded as
   (Z * 16384) + (Y * 64) + ((X - 2) / 4) + 16512



BLOCK HEADER DECODING

Read 1 word from the word stream as the control word.

The format for the control word is:
	Bits 0-19: Decompressed size
	Bits 20-21: Block type
	Bit 22: More blocks follow flag
	Bit 23: Aux bit
	Bits 24-31: Aux byte

For RLE blocks, the aux byte encodes the byte to be repeated for the
    decompressed size
For raw blocks, the aux byte is unused
For compressed blocks:
	Bits 24-25: Literal block type
	Bits 26-27: Literals length table mode
	Bits 28-29: Offset table mode
	Bits 30-31: Match length table mode

The compressed block table mode values are the same as Zstandard.


COMPRESSED BLOCKS

Decode a packed size as the number of literals in the block.

If the literals section type is 0, then the block uses raw literals encoding.

If the literals section type is 1, then read 1 byte as the RLE byte to use for
all literals.

If the literals section type is 2 (Huffman with a new tree), then decode a new
literals Huffman tree for the block.  See "Literals Huffman Tree Decoding."

If the literals section type is 3, then use the Huffman table from the
previous Huffman-encoded block.


If any of the offset table mode, literals length table mode, or match length
table mode are equal to 2, then read one byte which encodes the accuracy log
of the tables.  That byte has the following structure:
    Bits 0-1: Offset accuracy log base value
	Bits 2-4: Match length accuracy log base value
	Bits 5-7: Literals length accuracy log base value

The accuracy log of the tables is 5 + the base value from the accuracy byte.

Then repeat the following process for the offset table, match length table,
and literals length table, in order:
	If the table mode is equal to 0, then use the Zstandard predefined table.
	If the table mode is equal to 1, then read one byte as the RLE value.
    If the table mode is equal to 2, then decode a new FSE table.
	If the table mode is equal to 3, then reuse the RLE byte or FSE table from
	    the previous block.

Decode a packed size as the number of sequences, then decode and execute
sequences.  See "Decoding And Executing Sequences."

Finally, if the number of emitted literals is less than the number of literals
specified at the start of the block, then decode the remaining literals as
described in the "Decoding Literals" section.


LITERALS HUFFMAN TREE DECODING

Read 1 byte from the byte stream as X.  If X = 0, then the weights are encoded
directly, otherwise the weights are encoded using an FSE table and X is the
number of specified Huffman weights.  See "FSE Encoding of Huffman Weights"
for a description of this format.

For direct encoding, read 1 byte from the byte stream as the number of
specified weights.  For each specified weight, read 4 bits from the byte
stream as the specified weight for each weight, then if the number of
specified weights is odd, read an additional 4 bits as padding.


FSE ENCODING OF HUFFMAN WEIGHTS

For FSE encoding, first an FSE table is encoded.  The accuracy log is equal
to (5 + Aux bit) and the maximum accuracy log is 6.  See the "FSE Table
Decoding" section for a description of the table.

Huffman weights are decoding using rotating decode and the rotation resets
at the start of each Huffman table definition.

The process for decoding each weight is as follows:
- Preload 9 bits
- Decode one FSE value (see the "FSE Value Decoding" section)

  
RLE ENCODING

TODO


RAW BLOCKS

TODO


RLE BLOCKS

TODO


FSE TABLE DECODING

FSE tables use a similar variable-size coding scheme to the one in Zstd with
a few differences.

First, the special less-than-one probability is not supported.  Instead,
the probability of each value is encoded directly as its value.

Second, the bit usage of each value is the number of bits needed to encode
the largest value for the remaining probability.  Unlike in Zstandard, the
bit usage is not reduced for some values, so it is possible for an overflow
to occur from invalid data.  The behavior in such an overflow condition is
undefined, but the reference decoder will cap the overflowing value to the
maximum possible value and ignore all following values.

Third, the zero probability repeat encoding is different.  If a value of
zero is decoded, then an additional repeat count is decoded from the next
3 bits of the same bitstream.  Unlike in Zstandard, this is always limited
to a repeat count of 7.

Probabilities are decoded using a rotating decode and the rotation resets at
the start of each table definition.  The preload size in bits is equal to
(4 + the maximum accuracy log).  Unlike most rotating decodes, FSE tables
have no count known in advance, so all parallel bitstreams are preloaded
during preload steps.

FSE probability values are read in the following sequence:
- Preload the rotating decoder
- Decode the probability
- If the probability is zero, decode another 3 bits as the repeat count
  from the same bitstream.


HUFFMAN CODES

Huffman codes are computed in the same way as Zstandard, except that the bit
order is reversed due to Gstd always reading least-significant-bit first.



FSE VALUE DECODING

Unlike in Zstandard, Gstd uses a "state chaining" mechanism where only a
single state value is maintained for all FSE tables, even though the bit
usage of the state value differs for each FSE table.

To accomodate this, when transitioning to other FSE states, the low bits
corresponding to the table precision are updated and any bits above the
ones that are left as their former value.

Additionally, if a Huffman weight table is FSE encoded, the final state value
is used for further sequence decoding.

There are as many FSE state values and drain levels as there are parallel
bitstreams.  The initial value of each state is 0 and the initial drain level
is 9 bits.  The FSE state is not reset between blocks and is only initialized
at the start of the Gstd stream.

FSE values are decoding using a rotating decode and the state and drain level
to use correspond to the bitstream accessed by the rotating decode process.

Whenever an FSE value is decoded, the following actions are performed:
- Read as many bits as are required by the stream drain level.
- Add the bits to the current state value.
- Use the state value to determine the symbol and baseline from the FSE table.
- Replace the FSE state with the new baseline and the drain level to the
  number of bits in the FSE table entry.

Note that this process does NOT specify a preload, even though the preload
is required for the bitstream read.  The preload size varies by decode step
and some steps involve preloads that preload enough bits for multiple FSE
value reads.


DECODING AND EXECUTING SEQUENCES

Sequence coefficients are decoded using rotating decode.

The decode process for coefficients is as follows:
- Preload 27 bits
- Decode the literal length code
- Decode the match length code
- Decode the offset code
- Preload 32 bits
- Read the literal length low bits
- Read the match length low bits
- Preload 31 bits
- Read the offset low bits

Afterwards, sequence execution proceeds as defined by Zstandard.  After each
match, if the literal length is non-zero, then literals are decoded as
specified in "Decoding Literals."


DECODING LITERALS

If literals are Huffman compressed, then literals are decoded using rotating
decode, except that 4 bytes are loaded for each parallel bitstream.  The
process for decoding literals is as follows:

- Preload 22 bits
- Decode literal A
- Decode literal B
- Preload 22
- Decode literal C
- Decode literal D

In the resulting literal values queue, the literal values are queued in order
as A, B, C, D for each parallel bitstream, followed by the values for the next
parallel bitstream.

Note that the final bitstream may contain anywhere from 1 to 4 values.  The
second preload only occurs if there are 3 or 4 literals for that bitstream.


If literals are raw compressed, then literals are are decoded using rotating
decode as follows instead:
- Preload 32 bits
- Decode literal A
- Decode literal B
- Decode literal C
- Decode literal D
